---
layout: post
title:  "Not All Sunshine and Rainbows"
date:   2019-08-30 18:54:40 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
There are definitely days where the rain, thunder, and lightning come down, figuratively and literally. But figuratively speaking, there will be days that are harder than others. I didn’t have a storm day until two months in, but it hit me hard and lasted about a week. I wasn’t sure what was bothering me, but I suddenly didn’t have any motivation to go to the gym, take a dance class, or get up and play the piano. I wasn’t in the mood to be around people which is odd for me because I get my energy from others. I think part of the honeymoon phase of moving to a new place was starting to wear off and things started to slow down. I had finally gotten my apartment all set up, I was settling into work and now I needed to figure out what to do with all this new free time.  

Ever since I could remember, I was always busy. There was always a schedule, structure that kept me going from one thing onto the next. Class, work, dance, music, homework, sleep, repeat. Come college, also brought more extracurricular commitments and organizations but I wouldn’t change any of it. Now that I’ve graduated, I realized I have to create my own routine again but it looks a little different. I don’t bring work home and now have the ability to pursue interests that I didn't have time for before.

How will I spend my time after 5pm everyday? What are my goals for this year? 5 years from now? And even 10?  For the past 4 years all I could think about was do well in my classes, get to graduation, and find a job.  But now, what do I want out of my career? What are my milestones?  I had to spend time thinking about this because I had always had a goal in mind. I came up with three themes that I wanted to keep: continuous learning, intentional social commitment, and a consicous artistic engagement.

Continuous Learning.
I never want to stop learning.  This includes learning about technology, security, the world, art, or music inside or outside a classroom.  I have considered getting my Masters in Computer Science and specializing in Machine Learning, but I've also considered enrolling in online 5 day courses on specialized topics.  I also learn everyday from colleagues at work, from the way they manage people or a project and conduct themselves in front of clients to discovering new strategies in product management, python libraries, etc.  Further, I hope to dive deeper into the Security world and this can be achieved by attending conferences, technical talks, and continuing my research on related topics. Technical conferences are not only great for staying up to date on the latest topics and problems in the field you are in, but also for expanding your network which leads me to my next goal.

Intentional Social Commitment.
I believe that social engagement helps people grow at a faster rate and overcome barriers they didn't think was possible when they aren't doing it alone. For example, feedback is key when trying to improve on any skills or area of your life.  Feedback helps you understand where you may be lacking or show you a different perspective that you hadn't previously considered.  With feedback, comes support and encouragement.  Those by your side want you to succeed and reach your goals and you should want the same for them.  We are stronger and better together so why not intentionally make it a priority to help each other grow?  This doesn't mean holding someone's hand and micromanaging their every move, but it can be small check ins here and there.  In addition, be intentional with the people you surround yourself with.  Who are you allowing to influence you?  Surrounding myself with not only like-minded people, but also people who will push you is important.  Networking with people can have such a great impact on your life if you let it.  It builds authentic connections with others and can open doors to places that weren't on your radar/map.

Conscious Artistic Engagement.
Art has always been a huge part of who I am because it allows me to express myself in a way that words fail to.  I want to make a commitment to myself that I will always consicously pursue some type of art for the health of my mind, body, and soul.  Specifically, songwriting and playing piano and guitar has been on the back burner while in school, but I want to continue to develop these skills further.  Dance is a great active outlet that I can't forget is a blessing.  There was a time when it was very probable I wouldn't dance again and I won't take it for granted.  Painting, sketching, and photography have always been interests but I haven't been able to dive very deep into each of them yet.  It is something I am looking forward in doing, especially since others in my life also share those interests.
`
I hope that by focusing on each of the intertwined themes, I will be able to watch myself and others grow and fill my time in a meaningful way.  Share your themes in the comments below, I would love to hear them!
